README.md, before:

# Coordax: Coordinate Axes for scientific computing in JAX

Coordax makes it easy to associate array dimensions with coordinates in the context of scientific simulation codes written in JAX. This allows for efficient and expressive manipulation of data defined on structured grids, enabling operations like differentiation and interpolation with respect to physical coordinates.

**Key features**

1. Supports computation on locally-positional axes via coordinate map (`cmap`)
2. Manages coordinate objects that carry discretization details and custom methods
3. Compatible with lossless conversion to and from Xarray representation

Coordax is particularly well-suited for scientific simulations where it is crucial to propagate discretization details and associated objects throughout the computation, such as Earth system modeling of fluid dynamics.

**Disclaimer:**
This is not an officially supported Google product. This project is not
eligible for the [Google Open Source Software Vulnerability Rewards
Program](https://bughunters.google.com/open-source-security).

Commit message:

Initial release
Co-authored-by: Dmitrii Kochkov <dkochkov@google.com>

PiperOrigin-RevId: 777718164

README.md, after:

# ``Coordax`` - Coordinate Axes for scientific computing in JAX

``Coordax`` makes it easy to associate array dimensions with coordinates in the context of scientific simulation codes written in JAX. This allows for efficient and expressive manipulation of data defined on structured grids, enabling operations like differentiation and interpolation with respect to physical coordinates.

**Key features**

1. Supports computation on locally-positional axes via coordinate map (``cmap``)
2. Manages coordinate objects that carry discretization details and custom methods
3. Compatible with lossless conversion to and from ``Xarray`` representation.

``Coordax`` is particularly well-suited for scientific simulations where it is crucial to propagate discretization details and associated objects throughout the computation, such as Earth system modeling of fluid dynamics. For other use cases, we believe [``penzai.core.named_axes``](https://penzai.readthedocs.io/en/stable/notebooks/named_axes.html) may be a better fit.
